=Templates=

== {{Install OFW 6.60}} ==

** (Since Sony has left the PSP at 6.60 for more than 2 years, it's safe to use System Update to update to 6.60)
# Download [http://us.playstation.com/support/systemupdates/psp/index.htm OFW 6.60 from Sony] or from [http://pspcfw.com/dl/download.php?file=831PSP_660_FW_UPDATE.RAR PSPCFW].
# Extract this file.
# Copy EBOOT.PBP to ms0:/PSP/GAME/UPDATE/
# From the XMB (main psp menu) run the update from Game -> Memory Stick .
# You are now on OFW 6.60!

== {{Install 6.60 PRO}} ==

# Find the [http://code.google.com/p/procfw/downloads/list latest version of 6.60 PRO] and extract it.
# Copy and paste the extracted contents to their respective folders on the root of the PSP (e.g. PSP -> ms0:\PSP, seplugins -> ms0:\seplugins)
# From the XMB (main psp menu) run the PROUPDATE from Game - Memory stick.
# Press X to install CFW

== {{cIPL Flash 6.60 PRO}} ==

# From the XMB (main psp menu) run the CIPL Flasher from Game - Memory stick.
# You have successfully installed 6.60 PRO.

== {{Remove GEN Version Protect}} ==

# Open VSH menu by clicking on the Select button from XMB (main psp menu)
# Change USB device to Flash0 .
# Plug the PSP into a PC.
# Navigate to /vsh/etc/
# Open version.txt using notepad or wordpad
# In the first line change the 9.90 to 5.50 and save.
# Disconnect your psp from the pc and change the USB device back to Memory stick in vsh menu

=={{Temporary CFW}} ==

# Delete cIPL Flasher from Game - Memory stick.
# Please note that this is a temporary CFW. You will be back to OFW 6.60 if your PSP runs out of power (not sleep mode). But don't worry, just run FastRecovery from Game - Memory stick and CFW will be back in a matter of seconds!
# You have successfully installed 6.60 PRO-C!

== {{Downgrade to OFW 6.20}} ==

# [http://everything-psp.blogspot.com/2012/01/6xx-downgrader-v5.html 6.xx Downgrader]

== {{Install OFW 6.20}} ==

# Shut down your psp completetly so that you are on OFW 5.03
# Download OFW 6.20 (Do not use system update!)
# Extract the file.
# Plug the PSP into the PC and copy EBOOT.PBP to PSP/GAME/UPDATE/
# Navigate to Game - Memory stick:
# Launch 6.20 OFW update, follow the instructions, and wait for it to finish.
# Check '''Settings -> System Settings -> System Information''' and make sure the '''System Software''' line displays '''Version 6.20''' before proceeding.

== {{Install 6.20 PRO}} ==

# Find the [http://code.google.com/p/procfw/downloads/list latest version of 6.20 PRO] and extract it.
# Copy and paste the contents to their respective folders on the root of the PSP (e.g. PSP -> ms0:\PSP, seplugins -> ms0:\seplugins)
# Run '''6.20 PRO Permanent Patch''' from the XMB.
# '''DO NOT DELETE ''vshorig.prx'',''' which is found on the root of the Memory Stick. '''Keep a backup''' of this file on your computer: it contains vital information needed to uninstall 6.20 PRO. Without this file, it will be very difficult to upgrade your PSP in case of emergency.
# We also recommend (but do not require) keeping '''6.20 PRO Permanent Patch''' and '''PRO Update''' on your memory stick just in case you need to uninstall 6.20.

== {{Restoring vshorig.prx}} ==

(This method has not been well tested, but it has worked for [http://gbatemp.net/threads/whats-vshorig-prx-for.304261/ one random person on the internet.] Use at your own risk.)

# Download [http://www.psp-hacks.com/file/1891 PSARDumper for 6.20], and install it into your /PSP/GAME/ folder.
# Download the 6.20 OFW update: [http://www.psphero.com/download/official_620go.rar PSP GO], [All other PSPs] 
# copy the EBOOT.PBP of the 6.20 update to the root of your memory stick

Start PSARDumper, and press (Circle) button when it loads

when it finishes, there will be a new folder at the root of your memorystick called F0/
Navigate to F0/vsh/module/ and find the file vshmain.prx
rename this file to vshorig.prx and copy to the root of your memory stick.

=={{Uninstall 6.20 PRO}}==

In some cases, you may need to remove 6.20

# Make sure that '''vshorig.prx''' is still on the memory stick before proceeding. ''Do not continue if it is missing!''' It is unique to every PSP; hopefully you made a backup.
# Run the 6.20 PRO-B5 Permanent Installer again.
# Press X to uninstall the Permanent Patch.
# Run the PRO Update program and press Triangle to uninstall CFW.
** If this does not work, or your PSP 

== {{cIPL Motherboards}} ==

cIPL supports:

* PSP 1000 Fat: (All motherboards) '''TA-079v1''', '''TA-079v2''', '''TA-079v3''', '''TA-081''', '''TA-082''', '''TA-086'''
* PSP 2000 Slim: (Everything except TA-088v3): '''TA-085v1''', '''TA-085v2''', '''TA-088v1''', '''TA-088v2''', '''TA-090v1'''

cIPL does not support any other PSP motherboards.

All of the cIPL compatible PSPs are also capable of using [[PSP/LCFW Motherboards|LCFW]] and [[PSP/6.20 Permapatch Motherboards|6.20 Permapatch]] (though cIPL is preferred).

== {{6.20 Permapatch Motherboards}} ==

These PSPs can only use 6.20 permapatching and LCFW:

* PSP GO: (All motherboards) '''TA-091''' '''TA-094'''
* PSP 3000: (Everything except 07g and 09g) '''TA-090v2''', '''TA-090v3''', '''TA-092''', '''TA-093'''
* PSP 2000: '''TA-088v3'''

It is also possible to use 6.20 permapatch on PSPs that support [[PSP/cIPL Motherboards|cIPL]], though it is obviously not needed.

== {{Chronoswitch Motherboards}} ==

Compatible with these motherboards ONLY:

* PSP 3000 Brite: '''TA-095v1 (09g)''', '''TA-095v2 (09g)'''

DO NOT USE Chronoswitch with other motherboards, such as '''TA-095v1 (09g)''' or '''TA-095v2 (09g)''' . These can already downgrade to 6.20 using [[PSP/6.20 Permapatch|6.20 Permapatch]].

== {{LCFW Motherboards}} ==

* PSP E1000 Street: '''TA-096'''
* PSP 3000 Brite: '''TA-095v1 (07g)'''
* Any PSP that is [[PSP/cIPL Motherboards|cIPL]] or [[PSP/6.20 Permapatch Motherboards|6.20 Permapatch]] compatible
