==Preperation==

# First, identify your PSP motherboard in the [[PSP/Models]] guide.
h
===Glossary===

* OFW - Official Firmware. Not modded in any way.
* CFW - Custom Firmware. Modded OFW with special features.
* Signing - Homebrew built to work on any PSP firmware by adding Sony's Root Signing keys to them.

=LCFW=

LCFW is a temporary CFW exploit that gives you all the features of a permanent CFW, but is lost whenever the PSP runs out of power. It only takes three seconds to reinstall it, though.

LCFW is the safest method of installing CFW since it works on every PSP motherboard and will never result in a brick.

These PSP motherboards can only use LCFW:

* PSP E1000 Street: '''TA-096'''
* PSP 3000 Brite: '''TA-095v1 (07g)'''

Additionally, LCFW also works on:

* All PSPs that support 6.60 permapatching
* All other known PSP motherboards

==PSP E1000 Street==

===Official Firmware is 6.60===

{{Install 6.60 PRO}}

{{Temporary CFW}}

===Official Firmware below 6.60===

{{Download OFW 6.60}}

{{Install 6.60 PRO}}

{{Temporary CFW}}



==PSP 3000 Brite (07g and 09g)==

===Official Firmware is 6.60===

{{Install 6.60 PRO}}

{{Temporary CFW}}

===Official Firmware below 6.60===

{{Download OFW 6.60}}

{{Install 6.60 PRO}}

{{Temporary CFW}}



=6.20 Permapatch=

{{Note|This method is only for people who absolutely cannot wait three seconds to recover CFW when the PSP runs out of power. Otherwise, we strongly recommend using [[LCFW]], an easier method where there is no risk of bricking your PSP!}}

On the 6.20 firmware, there is a unique exploit that allows permapatching on some newer PSPs.

Don't worry about issues with using an older version; the features have mostly been backported, and 6.20 PRO-C2 uses a convenient exploit to run 6.60 ISOs.

These PSPs can only use 6.60 permapatching and LCFW:

* PSP GO: (All motherboards) '''TA-091''' '''TA-094'''
* PSP 3000: (Everything except 07g and 09g) '''TA-090v2''', '''TA-090v3''', '''TA-092''', '''TA-093''', TA-095v1 (09g) (possible, but unconfirmed)
* PSP 2000: '''TA-088v3'''

In addition, you can use the permapatch on:

* All PSPs that support cIPL
** PSP 1000 Fat: (All motherboards) '''TA-079v1''', '''TA-079v2''', '''TA-079v3''', '''TA-081''', '''TA-082''', '''TA-086'''
** PSP 2000 Slim: (Everything except TA-088v3): '''TA-085v1''', '''TA-085v2''', '''TA-088v1''', '''TA-088v2''', '''TA-090v1'''

(but for those PSPs, just use cIPL, which is easier and safer)

==PSP GO (All motherboards)==

===Official Firmware 6.20 or Below===

{{Install 6.20 PRO}}

===Official Firmware 6.20 or Above===

{{Downgrade to OFW 6.20}}

{{Install 6.20 PRO}}

==PSP 3000 Brite (Non 07g)==

===Official Firmware 6.20 or Below===

{{Install 6.20 PRO}}

===Official Firmware 6.20 or Above===

{{Downgrade to OFW 6.20}}

{{Install 6.20 PRO}}

==PSP 2000 Slim (TA-088v3)==

===Official Firmware 6.20 or Below===

{{Install 6.20 PRO}}

===Official Firmware 6.20 or Above===

{{Downgrade to OFW 6.20}}

{{Install 6.20 PRO}}


==Other motherboards==

* Note: DO NOT USE on '''07g, 09g or TA-096'''. See the [[PSP/Models]] table for more information.



=cIPL=

cIPL supports:

* PSP 1000 Fat: (All motherboards) '''TA-079v1''', '''TA-079v2''', '''TA-079v3''', '''TA-081''', '''TA-082''', '''TA-086'''
* PSP 2000 Slim: (Everything except TA-088v3): '''TA-085v1''', '''TA-085v2''', '''TA-088v1''', '''TA-088v2''', '''TA-090v1'''

cIPL does not support any other PSP motherboards.

All of the cIPL compatible PSPs are also capable of using LCFW and 6.60 permapatch (though cIPL is preferred).

==PSP 2000 Slim (Non TA-088v3)==

===Official Firmware is 6.60===

{{Install 6.60 PRO}}

{{cIPL Flash 6.60 PRO}}

===Official Firmware below 6.60 or using CFW M33/Dark AleX===

{{Download OFW 6.60}}

{{Install 6.60 PRO}}

{{cIPL Flash 6.60 PRO}}

===Custom Firmware 5.50 GEN or 5.50 Prometheus 4===

{{Remove GEN Version Protect}}

{{Download OFW 6.60}}

{{Install 6.60 PRO}}

{{cIPL Flash 6.60 PRO}}


==PSP 1000 Fat (All motherboards)==

===Official Firmware is 6.60===

{{Install 6.60 PRO}}

{{cIPL Flash 6.60 PRO}}

===Official Firmware below 6.60 or using CFW M33/Dark AleX===

{{Download OFW 6.60}}

{{Install 6.60 PRO}}

{{cIPL Flash 6.60 PRO}}

===Custom Firmware 5.50 GEN or 5.50 Prometheus 4===

{{Remove GEN Version Protect}}

{{Download OFW 6.60}}

{{Install 6.60 PRO}}

{{cIPL Flash 6.60 PRO}}

==Sources==

* [http://forums.dashhacks.com/psp-tutorials-guides/306417-hacking-psp-mega-thread-never-outdated.html Dashhacks - Hacking PSP Mega Thread: Never Outdated]
* [http://forums.dashhacks.com/psp-tutorials-guides/295996-5-03-gen-mhu-ofw-6-20-pro-b-9-permanent.html Dashhacks - 5.03 GEN/MHU 6.20 PRO-B9 Permapatch]
