== Pandora's Battery ==

* Despretar del Cementerio v9 - An update to Dark AleX's original made by neur0n, supporting 6.60 ME.
* Time Machine - Install multiple firmwares to your memory stick, and use the Pandora's Battery to switch between them.
** Time Machine Addon - A modification by neur0n supporting 6.60 ME.

== Downgrading your PSP ==

=== From 6.xx to 6.20 ===

* 6.xx Downgrader - Downgrade from any 6.xx firmware. Not for PSP Brite (09g) models.
* Chronoswitch Downgrader - A unique 6.xx downgrader designed for PSP Brite (09g) models, to install 6.20.

=== From 6.xx to 5.xx ===

* Hellcat's Recovery Flasher

=== From 1.50 to 1.00 ===

* 1.00 Downgrader - Downgrade from OFW 1.50 to OFW 1.00, the first firmware available for the PSP in Japan.

== Running Old Firmware ==

WARNING: Your PSP will be BRICKED if you downgrade past your PSP's lowest firmware version. See [[PSP/Models/the chart]] to see which

If you're a historian who wants to try out older firmware, we recommend obtaining a PSP 1000 Fat, since is able to run every single firmware version safely.

=== 6.xx ===

* 6.xx Downgrader - Downgrade from any 6.xx firmware. Not for PSP Brite (09g) models.
* Chronoswitch Downgrader - A unique 6.xx downgrader designed for PSP Brite (09g) models, to install 6.20.
* Hellcat's Recovery Flasher - Directly jump from 6.xx to older versions.

=== 2.xx - 5.xx ===

* Time Machine - Install multiple firmwares to your memory stick, and use the Pandora's Battery to switch between them.

=== 1.xx ===

* 1.00 Downgrader - Downgrade from OFW 1.50 to OFW 1.00, the first firmware available for the PSP in Japan.

== To-Do ==

* Create a unified Time Machine app that installs any firmware to PSP
* Create a version of RainsMMSMaker that works with 6.60 CFW

== Repair Semi-Brick on PSP-3000 Brite and PSP Go ==

Semi-Brick is a state where the firmware no longer functions, but the recovery menu is still accessible by booting with the R trigger held.

This occurs on PSP-3000 Brite and PSP Go as a result of a bad flash while installing 6.20 PRO permapatch.

Make sure that your unique vshorig.prx file is on the root of the memory stick; you'll need this to uninstall 6.20 PRO. Hopefully you've backed it up.

# remove battery, re-insert and power up holding R trigger.
# if the PRO recovery menu shows up, you're in luck else you have a full-brick.
# in the recovery menu, search for this option 'Hide cfw files' and set it to DISABLED
# Choose 1st option -Toggle USB (make sure USB device set to ms)
# make sure you have a 'vshorig.prx' file there (if you haven't tampered with the cfw files it should be there and you can skip step 3 and 5)
# Download [http://uploading.com/files/21afcb11/Semi-BrickRecovery.exe/ Semi-BrickRecovery.exe.]
# copy that file in this location ms0:/psp/game
# now run the Semi-BrickRecovery.exe from this folder.
# Done!
# Go to the UPDATE folder and replace the 635.pbp with [http://us.playstation.com/support/systemupdates/psp/index.htm the 6.60 OFW EBOOT]. Make sure to rename the 6.60 eboot to '''ofw.pbp''' .
# if you have any plugins in the seplugin folder delete all of them now.
# exit usb mode and choose to reset device.
# power on again holding R trigger.
# run the third option 'Run /PSP/GAME/RECOVERY/EBOOT.PBP'
# press X to install ofw.
# the Sony updater should now come up.
# You're now back on 6.60 OFW. We recommend that you install Temporary CFW instead of a permapatch, since there is no chance of semi-bricking your PSP.

=== Sources ===

* [http://www.pspmod.com/forums/psp-guides-tutorials/72941-ultimate-psp-guide.html PSPMod - The Ultimate PSP Guide]
