While homebrew can be signed to work on any PSP, most users will want to install a custom firmware to gain some additional features:

* ISO/CSO Game Playback/Dump - UMDs are notoriously unreliable, so move them to digital format before your game collection is gone for good.
* Runs Legacy Homebrew - Custom firmware allows older, unsigned PSP homebrew to run. Otherwise, the PSP will claim that the homebrew is "corrupted".
* Plugin Mode - Extend the abilities of your PSP with PRX Plugins.
* PSone Emulator Unlock - Now you can use Sony's secret PSone emulator. Though it's never been perfect.
* And much, much more...

This guide only works for OFW 6.60 and below. Avoid OFW 6.61, if it even exists. Since Sony considers the PSP dead and have not updated past 6.60 in 3 years, this guide will probably work for all known PSP firmwares and motherboard versions.

==Preperation==

# First, identify your PSP motherboard in the [[PSP/Models]] guide.
# Next, find out which exploit is right for you, and go to the related page.

===cIPL===

* PSP 1000 Fat: (All motherboards) '''TA-079v1''', '''TA-079v2''', '''TA-079v3''', '''TA-081''', '''TA-082''', '''TA-086'''
* PSP 2000 Slim: (Everything except TA-088v3): '''TA-085v1''', '''TA-085v2''', '''TA-088v1''', '''TA-088v2''', '''TA-090v1'''

===6.60===

The last generation of a long history of PSP Custom Firmware. This one picks up where GEN left off with an update to the last Official Firmware 6.60 and an signed installer that works on any PSP model or firmware.

* [[PSP/6.60 PRO]] - The PRO series of custom firmwares are the only open-source CFWs available, and are as such the best supported.
** [http://code.google.com/p/procfw/ 6.60 PRO Google Code Project]
* [[PSP/6.60 ME]] - A closed source CFW for HEN-based PSPs. Offers a few different and interesting features.

===Official Firmware===

Of course, we will need to delve into Sony's good ol' official firmware. Listed here are the most important ones; the rest can be found in the last link.

* 6.60 OFW

* [[PSP Official Firmware]] - This is a list of all the Official Firmware, and mirrors.

==Sources==

* [http://forums.dashhacks.com/psp-tutorials-guides/299905-ultimate-guide-install-6-xx-pro-cfw-all-psp-models.html PSP-Hacks Forums - Ultimate Guide to CFW 6.60]
* [http://www.reddit.com/r/PSP/comments/q93x6/comprehensive_guide_to_hacking_your_psp_20/ Emb3rSil - The Comprehensive Guide to Hacking your PSP (Guide v2.0)]
* [http://e-1004.blogspot.com/2012/08/installing-custom-firmware-on-your-psp.html Installing Custom Firmware on your PSP]
* [http://wololo.net/cfw4dummies/ Wololo - CFW 4 Dummies]
* [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RNE70PFB2To Youtube: HolmesInFive - How to install PSP CFW 6.60 PRO-B10]
* [http://gbatemp.net/threads/how-to-softmod-hack-your-psp.293978/ GBATemp - Softmod/Hack your PSP]
* [http://gbatemp.net/threads/psp-hacking-modding-f-a-q-start-here.268289/ GBATemp - PSP Hax Modding FAQ]

* [http://gbatemp.net/threads/psp-custom-firmware-guide.293324/ CFW Descriptions]
* [http://i.imgur.com/57vj2.png Motherboard Compatibility Chart](http://www.zload.net/bilder/Motherboard%20Overview.png) - [imgur mirror]

* [http://wololo.net/talk/viewtopic.php?f=17&t=146 Wololo - Installing PSP CFW 5.50 GEN (old CFWs) with Pandora's Battery]
* [http://www.pspmod.com/forums/psp-guides-tutorials/72941-ultimate-psp-guide.html PSPMod - Ultimate Pandora's Battery CFW Guide]
* [http://www.pspmod.com/forums/psp-guides-tutorials/76284-guide-how-flash-6-60-me-1-8-any-firmware.html PSPMod - Creating a Magic Memory Stick]

