The Android Development Codex is a project to '''create clear, unified guides''' that teach people to root, unlock, and eventually develop '''for each and every Android device.'''

We are unofficially working in partnership with the [http://xda-university.com XDA University] as it's end user-focused wing.

== Rationale ==

Currently, the Android modding scene depends heavily on forums as their bread and butter. While forums may be great for fast-paced development, their disjointed, massive threads are horrible for any kind of useful documentation. The results are:

* '''Outdated and dispatriate guides'''
* '''Disunited guidemakers and developers'''
* '''General confusion''', leading to needless bricking
* '''Angry users that create bitter developers'''
* '''&quot;Obvious&quot; troubleshooting tips hidden under a mountain of 500 posts'''
* '''No clear liquidation plan, leading to link rot and loss of hard work in several years''' (see XDA's Windows Mobile 6 forums)

By uniting guidemakers into a single guide, we hope to give end-users great guides, and keep them from annoying developers.

The XDA Wiki was once founded with the same goals, but devolved into pointless stickies due to the practice of linking back to forums. With the Codex, all content will be saved here, with links to sources.

== Sections ==

* [[ADC Introduction]] - A quick intro to the rationale and ideals of this guide, and smartphone modding in general.
* [[ADC General Setup]] - Learn how to install and run the tools you need to succeed.
* [[ADC Device Guides]] - Customized, fully decked out guides for rooting each and every device we could find.
* [[ADC General OS Customizations|Customizations]] - General customizations that work on all devices of a specific OS.

=== Content Guidelines ===

* [[General Guidelines|ADC Guidelines]] - The ideals that you should uphold while working with and editing this guide.
* [[ADC Templates]] - Templates and general guidelines for creating customized guides for a device.
* [[ADC Linux]] - Run a full desktop OS on your little mobile device; research is being made to make it comfortable to use in the mobile space.

=== Reference ===

* [[ADC Glossary]] - Contains all the crazy acronyms and word soup that you'll need to wade through when using this guide.
* [[Android Buying Guide for Modders|ADC Buying Guide]] - While modding can fix up an outdated device, it will make your life easier to buy the right device from the start.

