This guide is for all xperia devices from 2011 (xperia mini, mini pro, active, ray, live)

You have two routes to choose from: Locked Bootloader (CWM Recovery) and Sony's Official Bootloader Unlock (flashtool). Choose one route and follow the guides in order.

* Shortname: S2011

## Locked Bootloader (CWM Recovery)

This method keeps the bootloader locked. If you ever want to send back your device for repair, just revert it back and it's good as new.

However, the recovery used in this method has some limitations, since it's basically hacked into the `/system` partition.

* [[S2011 Locked Rooting]]
* [[S2011 Locked Recovery]]

## Unlocked Bootloader

You can also choose to use Sony's official unlock. This gives you a fully featured recovery image.

However, it permanently voids your warranty. You will need to use Sony's `flashtool` program or `fastboot` to install ROMs.

* [[S2011 Unlock]]
  * [[S2011 Automatic Unlock]]
  * [[S2011 Manual Unlock]]
* [[S2011 Rooting]]
* [[S2011 Unlocked Flashing]]

## Custom ROMs

{{Warning|Make sure that the ROM you want use is designed for your bootloader. There are two types: **Locked** and **Unlocked**.}}

* [Xperia Ray Custom ROMs](http://forum.xda-developers.com/forumdisplay.php?f=1351) - The Xperia Ray has it's very own custom ROM forum.
* [S2011 Custom ROMs](http://forum.xda-developers.com/forumdisplay.php?f=1242) - A link to XDA for Custom ROMs for all other 2011 Xperia devices.

## Miscellaneous

* [[S2011 Official ROMs]] - After unlocking, you will have to update official ROMs manually.

## Sources

* [XDA-Developers - Sony Xperia 2011 devices guide index](http://forum.xda-developers.com/showthread.php?t=2029238)

## Issues

* Create restore guide
* [[S2011 Unlocked Flashing]] - Finish CWM guide or use a template

---

* [[S2011 Locked Recovery]] - Create a manual method
* [[S2011 Locked Rooting]] - Create a Flashtool template, kernel is flashed twice
* [[S2011 Automatic Unlock]] & [[S2011 Rooting]] Add some pictures for the automatic toolkits