If you have any difficult boot issues or if you need to send back your device for repair, download and install your device's stock firmware.

== Download Stock Firmware ==

[http://www.huaweidevice.com/worldwide/downloadCenter.do?method=index&type=software Huawei Android Firmware]

Huawei periodically removes ROMs from their website, so if you can't find it there, download them from the mirrors below.

For best results, try to find a ROM that is closest to your device/operator/country.

* [http://forum.gsmhosting.com/vbb/f25/almost-all-huawei-stock-roms-firmware-updated-27-05-12-a-1481290/ GSMHosting - Almost All Huawei Stock ROMs]

-----

* '''Huawei IDEOS U8150 / T-Mobile Comet'''
* [http://madmodder.co.uk/huawei/u8150/huawei-u8150-firmware-list.htm Madmodder.co.uk - Huawei U8150]
* [http://johnnyparanoia.blogspot.co.uk/2012/04/huawei-u8150-firmware-list.html Johnny Paranoia - Huawei U8150 Firmware]
* [http://forum.myppc.it/viewtopic.php?f=&t=5611 Nuove Rom Ufficiali by EP690D (need to create an account)]
* [http://www.mediafire.com/?5pc6112ioj8x1ty U8150 V100R001C18B842 (Kenya Safaricom)]
* [http://www.mediafire.com/?4vsa6vabs40alvo U8150 V100R001C183B825 (NZ 2degrees)]

== Restore to Stock ==

# If your SDCard is not already formatted to FAT32, do so now. Remember to backup all your files.
# Create a folder called {{Ic|dload}} on the root of your SDCard.
# Extract the {{Ic|UPDATE.APP}} file from the stock ROM above and put it in {{Ic|dload}}.
# Turn off your phone and make sure the SDCard is in the phone.
# Hold the {{Key|Power}} + {{Key|Hang Up Button (RED)}} + {{Key|Volume Up}} buttons to enter update mode.
# Your phone will start updating and reboot. You have now restored to stock!

== Sources ==

* [http://forum.xda-developers.com/showthread.php?t=1011527 XDA-Developers:veer1238 - Install Stock ROM on any Huawei phone]