Custom Recoveries are used to install custom ROMs to Android devices.

== ClockworkMod ==

ClockworkMod is the most popular and common Android custom recovery out there.

=== ROM Manager ===

As long as ROM Manager is available, you can use the '''ROM Manager''' app to easily install ClockworkMod Recovery once rooted.

# Install '''ROM Manager''' from the Play Store.
# Open up ROM Manager and select '''Install ClockworkMod Recovery'''. Scroll down until you find '''Huawei U8150'''.
# Follow the directions and your custom recovery is installed.
# Now you can download a custom ROM and install it. Select '''Reboot Into Recovery''' to jump directly into ClockworkMod directly.

=== Manual Computer ===

First, ensure that you have

* [[Android SDK Platform Tools]]

    adb reboot bootloader
    fastboot flash recovery cwm-recovery.img

== UltraJack ==

UltraJack is an older type of recovery based on Amon Ra. It is pretty much does the same thing as ClockworkMod.

=== Windows ===

# Download UltraJack here, and extract it somewhere.
# Turn off your phone and hold {{Key|Power}} + {{Key|End Call (Red)}} + {{Key|Volume Down}} for five seconds. This will enter Bootloader Mode.3. The phone will be stuck on the boot screen. Plug it into the computer.
# Windows should automatically install the drivers.

* If it doesn't, download the PDANet drivers from here and then install it.

1. Go to the folder where UltraJack was extracted and click '''Install Recovery Windows'''.
2. If it is installed, it should reboot by itself.
3. The phone will take a while to load, so be patient.

To reenter UltraJack Recovery afterwards, turn off the phone and hold {{Key|Power}} + {{Key|Volume Up}} + {{Key|Start Call (Green) Key}}.

=== Manual Computer ===

First, ensure that you have [[Android SDK Platform Tools]] installed. Then just use this command:

    adb reboot bootloader
    fastboot flash recovery cwm-recovery.img

=== Manual On-Phone ===
