There are two known methods to root the U8150; using the app {{Ic|z4root}}, or the {{Ic|rageagainstthecage}} exploit. 

**Choose only one!**

== z4root ==

This is the recommended rooting method, known to work on all U8150s.

# Download z4root from here. Try to download it directly to your phone, or you can move it to the phone from a computer. (add link to softpedia)
# Enable '''Unknown Sources''' in '''Settings/Applications'''.
# Go to the '''Downloads''' app, and tap {{Ic|z4root.apk}} to install.
# When you're done, open up z4root, click '''Root''', and you're done!

== rageagainstthecage ==

This is the exploit used in SuperOneClick. However, SuperOneClick itself has not been known to work out.

=== Requirements ===

* [[Android SDK Platform Tools]]
* SuperOneClick (just for the exploit, add link)
* USB Debugging Enabled: Open '''Settings/Applications/Development''' and enable '''USB Debugging'''. It will give you a warning, just press yes.

=== Method ===

First, plug in your phone and check if your device is recognized by {{Ic|adb}}:

    adb devices

You should see the serial number of the phone. If not, check if USB Debugging is enabled.

Next, go to the directory where you saved the SuperOneClick files to, using the command {{Ic|cd}}.

    cd /location/of/SuperOneClick

Push {{Ic|rageagainstthecage}} to a temporary directory.

    adb push rageagainstthecage /data/local/tmp/rageagainsthtecage

Next, we will get into the Android system and run the exploit from there.

    adb shell
    cd /data/local/tmp
    # gives it permissions to execute
    chmod 0755 rageagainstthecage
    ./rageagainstthecage

Wait until you get kicked out from {{Ic|adb}}, and run this command to get back into the Android system:

    adb shell

If everything worked, you should see a {{Ic|#}} instead of a {{Ic|$}}. This means that {{Ic|adb}} is now running as root. Now we will mount the system and install apps that will allow you to use the root account. If these commands give you a '''permission denied''' message, you are not rooted, so try again.

    mount -o rw,remount /dev/block/mdtblock4 /system
    exit
    adb push su /system/bin/su
    adb push busybox /system/bin/busybox
    adb push sqlite3 /system/bin/sqlite3
    adb push Superuser.apk /system/app/Superuser.apk

Finally, we go into the Android system and modify the permissions so the programs can be run.
    
After all that, you are now rooted!

== Sources ==

* [http://forum.xda-developers.com/showthread.php?t=890138 XDA-Developers - Rooting the U8150]