The HTC Droid Incredible lives up to it's name; it has the strong aesthetic design of the Droid series, but because of this droid's unlockable bootloaders and it's development community, it remains incredible to this day when compared to it's predecessor and successors.

== Development Info ==

* '''Type:''' HTC Sense
* '''Stance:''' A Tough Nut to Crack
* '''Ease of Rooting/Custom ROMs:''' Manual Method Only, Grueling downgrade with ADB, No GUIs
* '''Bootloader Unlockable?:''' Yes, through HTCDev
* '''Dev Community Health:''' Acceptable, declining
* '''Range:''' CDMA Verizon Wireless, United States
* '''Latest Stock Android Version:''' Android 2.3.4 GB with HTC Sense 1.0
* '''Optimal Android Version:''' Android 4.0 ICS

== Sections ==

* [[Bypass Verizon Activation]] - All Verizon phones must be activated before use. If you don't have a Verizon contract, you have to use this exploit to escape it.
* [[DINC Preperation]] - Get ADB up and running and obtain the needed files.
* [[DINC Things to Know]] - You will be told to do specific actions over and over in this guide. Here they are for reference.

=== Glossary ===

* [[Glossary Android]]
* [[Glossary HTC]]

=== Unlocking ===

The Droid Incredible in it's current state has a very grueling unlock method. Verizon has managed to patch out most of the easy root and S-OFF methods available with the Android 2.3.4 update. So find a bit of time and patience and grit your teeth; because it's going to be a long, but rewarding journey.

Now, we are left with the Official HTCDev Unlock, which, thankfully, ''always'' works. However, it completely voids the warranty (But by this point in time it's not like there's any of it left). From there, we will downgrade with an exploit and get use the Revolutionary exploit to get S-OFF. Let's go!

# [[DINC HTCDev Unlock]] - The Official bootloader unlock. It always works; but your phone stays S-ON.
# [[DINC Root and Recovery]] - Rooting the Gingerbread ROM.
# [[DINC Downgrade to Froyo]] - We will downgrade to Android 2.2 Froyo to get the old HBOOT installed.
# [[DINC Unlock, Root, and Recovery]] - Unlock, root, and install recovery for the second time.
# [[DINC SOFF]] - At last, we finally get S-OFF on the Droid Incredible.
# [[DINC Update HBOOT and Radio]] - The old Froyo update uses older, less efficient radio software. It's well worth the effort to get it to the newest version.
# [[Custom ROMs]] - Taste the fruits of victory by installing a custom ROM or two.

=== Miscellaneous ===

* [[DINC Specific Mods]] - Modifications unique to the Droid Incredible.
* [[DINC Credits and Sources]] - Everyone and every dev whose work went into creating this guide.

=== Roadmap ===

# Unlock the bootloader with HTCDev
# Flash a Recovery Image
# Flash superuser root files.
# Rewrite the misc image with adb and downgrade to Android 2.2 Froyo
# Re-unlock HTCDev hboot
# Re-flash recovery
# Re-flash superuser root files and flash unrevoked's &quot;forever&quot; s-off patch